# 2.3. BUILDING LINUX FROM SCRATCH IN STAGES

Linux From Scratch is designed to be built in one session. That is, the instructions assume that the system will not be shutdown during the process. That does not mean that the system has to be done in one sitting. The issue is that certain procedures have to be re-accomplished after a reboot if resuming Linux From Scratch at different points.

## 2.3.1. CHAPTERS 1 - 4

These chapters are accomplished on the host system. When restarting, be careful of the following:

- Procedures done as the root user after Section 2.4 need to have the Linux From Scratch environment variable set FOR THE ROOT USER.

## 2.3.2. CHAPTER 5

- The /mnt/lfs partition must be mounted.
- ALL instructions in Chapter 5 must be done by user lfs. A su - lfs needs to be done before any task in Chapter 5.
- The procedures in Section 5.3, "General Compilation Instructions" are critical. If there is any doubt installing a package, ensure any previously expanded tarballs are removed, re-extract the package files, and complete all instructions in that section.

## 2.3.3. CHAPTER 6 - 8

- The /mnt/lfs partition must be mounted.
- When entering chroot, the Linux From Scratch environment variable must be set for root. The Linux From Scratch variable is not used otherwise.
- The virtual file systems must be mounted. This can be done before or after entering chroot by changing to a host virtual terminal and, as root, running the commands in Section 6.2.2, "Mounting and Populating / dev" and Section 6.2.3, "Mounting Virtual Kernel File Systems".
