# 2.4. CREATING A NEW PARTITION

Like most other operating systems, Linux From Scratch is usually installed on a dedicated partition. The recommended approach to building an Linux From Scratch system is to use an available empty partition or, if you have enough unpartitioned space, to create one.

A minimal system requires a partition of around 6 gigabytes (GB). This is enough to store all the source tarballs and compile the packages. However, if the Linux From Scratch System is intended to be the primary Linux system, additional software will probably be installed which will require additional space. A 20 GB partition is a reasonable size to provide for growth. The Linux From Scratch system itself will not take up this much room. A large portion of this requirement is to provide sufficient free temporary storage as well as for adding additional capabilities after Linux From Scratch is complete. Additionally, compiling packages can require a lot of disk space which will be reclaimed after the package is installed.

Because there is not always enough Random Access Memory (RAM) available for compilation processes, it is a good idea to use a small disk partition as swap space. This is used by the kernel to store seldom-used data and leave more memory available for active processes. The swap partition for an Linux From Scratch system can be the same as the one used by the host system, in which case it is not necessary to create another one.

Start a disk partitioning program such as cfdisk or fdisk with a command line option naming the hard disk on which the new partition will be created - for example /dev/sda for the primary Integrated Driver Electronics (IDE) disk. Create a Linux native partition and a swap partition, if needed. Please refer to cfdisk or fdisk if you do not yet know how to use the programs.

> NOTE
>
> For experienced users, other partitioning schemes are possible. The new Linux From Scratch system can be on a software RAID array or an LVM logical volume.
> However, some of these options require an initramfs, which is an advanced topic. These partitioning methodologies are not recommended for first time Linux From Scratch users.

Remember the designation of the new partition (e.g., sda5). This book will refer to this as the Linux From Scratch partition. Also remember the designation of the swap partition. These names will be needed later to the /etc/fstab file.

## 2.4.1. OTHER PARTITION ISSUES

Requests for advice on system partitioning are often posted on the Linux From Scratch mailing lists. This is a highly subjective topic. The default for most distributions is to use the entire drive with the exception of one small swap partition. This is not optimal for Linux From Scratch for several reasons. It reduces flexibility, makes sharing of data across multiple distributions or Linux From Scratch builds more difficult, make backups more time consuming, and can waste disk space through inefficient allocation of file system structures.

### 2.4.1.1. THE ROOT PARTITION

A root Linux From Scratch partition (not to be confused with the /root directory) of then gigabytes is a good compromise for most systems. It provides enough space to build Linux From Scratch and most of Beyond Linux From Scratch, but is small enough so that multiple partitions can be easily created for experimentation.

### 2.4.1.2. THE SWAP PARTITION

Most distributions automatically create a swap partition. Generally the recommended size of the swap partition is about twice the amount of physical RAM, however this is rarely needed. If disk space is limited, hold the swap partition to two gigabytes and monitor the amount of disk swapping.

Swapping is never good. Generally you can tell if a system is swapping by just listening to disk activity and observing how the system reacts to commands. The first reaction to swapping should be to check for an unreasonable command such as trying to edit a five gigabyte file. If swapping becomes a normal occurrence, the best solution is to purchase more RAM for your system.

### 2.4.1.3. THE GRUB BIOS PARTITION

If the boot disk has been partitioned with a GUID Partition Table(GPT), then a small, typically 1 MB, partition must be created if it does not already exist. This partition is not formatted, but must be available for GRUB to use during installation of the boot loader. This partition will normally be labeled 'BIOS Boot' if using fdisk or have code of EFO2 if using gdisk.

> NOTE
>
> The Grub Bios partition must be on the drive that the BIOS uses to boot the system. This is not necessarily the same drive where the Linux From Scartch root partition is located. Disks on a system may use different partition table types. The requirement for this partition depends only on partition table type of the book disk.

### 2.4.1.4. CONVENIENCE PARTITIONS

There are several other partitions that are not required, but should be considered when designing a disk layout. The following list is not comprehensive, but is meant as a guide.

- /boot - Highly recommended. Use this partition to store kernels and other booting information. To minimize potential boot problems with larger disks, make this the first physical partition on your first disk drive. A partition size of 100 megabytes is quite adequate.
- /home - Highly recommended. Share your home directory and user customization across multiple distributions or Linux From Scratch builds. The size is generally fairly large and depends on available disk space.
- /usr - A separate /usr partition is generally used if providing a server for a thin client or diskless workstation. It is normally not needed for Linux From Scratch. A size of five gigabytes will handle most installations.
- /opt - This directory is most useful for Beyond Linux From Scratch where multiple installations of large packages like Gnome or KDE can be installed without embedding the files in the /usr hierarchy. If used, 5 to 10 gigabytes is generally adequate.
- /tmp - A separate /tmp directory is rare, but useful if configuring a thin client. This partition, if used, will usually not need to exceed a couple of gigabytes.
- /usr/src - This partition is very useful for providing a location to store Beyond Linux From Scratch source files and share them across Linux From Scratch builds. It can also used as a location for building Beyond Linux From Scratch packages. A reasonably large partition of 30 - 50 gigabytes allows plenty of room.

Any separate partition that you want automatically mounted upon boot needs to be specified in the /etc/fstab. Details about how to specify partitions will be discussed in Section 8.2, "Creating the /etc/fstab File".
