# 1.5. HELP

If an issue or a question is encountered while working throught this book, please check the FAQ page at http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/fag/#generalfaq. Questions are often already answered there. If your questions not answered on this page, try to find the source of the problem. The following hint will give you some guidance for troubleshooting: http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/hints/downloads/files/errors.txt.

If you cannot find your problem listed in the FAQ, search the mailing lists at http://www.linuxfromscratch.org/search.html.

We also have a wonderful Linux From Scratch community that is willing to offer assistance through the mailing lists and IRC (see the Section 1.4. "Resources" section of This book) . However, we get several support questions every day and many of assistance possible, you need to do some research on your own first. That allows use to focus on the more unusual support needs. If your searches do not produce a solution, please include all relevant information (mentioned below) int your request for help.

## 1.5.1. THINGS OF MENTION

Apart from a brief explanation of the problem being experienced, the essential things to include in any request for help are:

- The version of the book being used (in this case 8.2)
- The host distribution and version being used to create Linux From Scratch
- The output from the Host System Requirements script
- The package or section the problem was encountered in
- The exact error message or symptom being received
- Note whether you have deviated from the book at all

> Note
>
> Deviating from this book does not mean that we will not help you. After all, Linux From Scratch is about personal preference. Being upfront about any changes to the established procedure helps use evaluate and determine possible causes of your problem.

## 1.5.2. CONFIGURE SCRIPT PROBLEMS

If something goes wrong while running the configure script, review the config.log file. This file may contain errors encountered during configure which were not printed to the screen. Include the relevant lines if you need to ask for help.


## 1.5.3. COMPILATION PROBLEMS

Both the screen output and the contents of various files are useful in determining the cause of compilation problems. The screen output from the configure script and the make run can be helpful. It is not necessary to include the entire output, but do include enough of the relevant information. Below is an example of the type of information to include from the screen output from make:

```
gcc -DALIASPATH=\"/mnt/lfs/usr/share/locale:.\"
-DLOCALEDIR=\"/mnt/lfs/usr/share/locale\"
-DLIBDIR=\"/mnt/lfs/usr/lib\"
-DINCLUDEDIR=\"/mnt/lfs/usr/include\" -DHAVE_CONFIG_H -I. -I.
-g -O2 -c getopt1.c
gcc -g -O2 -static -o make ar.o arscan.o commands.o dir.o
expand.o file.o function.o getopt.o implicit.o job.o main.o
misc.o read.o remake.o rule.o signame.o variable.o vpath.o
default.o remote-stub.o version.o opt1.o
-lutil job.o: In function `load_too_high':
/lfs/tmp/make-3.79.1/job.c:1565: undefined reference
to `getloadavg'
collect2: ld returned 1 exit status
make[2]: *** [make] Error 1
make[2]: Leaving directory `/lfs/tmp/make-3.79.1'
make[1]: *** [all-recursive] Error 1
make[1]: Leaving directory `/lfs/tmp/make-3.79.1'
make: *** [all-recursive-am] Error 2
```

In this case, many people would just include the bottom section:

```
make [2]: *** [make] Error 1
```

This is not enough information to properly diagnose the problem because it only notes that something went wrong, not what went wrong. The entire section, as in the example above, is what should be saved because it includes the command that was executed and the associated error messages.

An excellent article about asking for help on Internet is available online at http://catb.org/~esr/faqs/smart-questions.html. Read and follow the hints in this document to increase the likelihood of getting the help you need.
